So they could break down into groups of fours?
For most of your anatomy classes and surgery and your physiology and everything, you worked in groups of fours.
Describe, in general, those 64 people.
Well, they were all male.
There were some veterans, of course.
In my class there were two or three PhDs that had come in from other disciplines and we had a good class, I mean academic class.
Were they urban or rural in background?
Probably, probably
If I had to guess, maybe half and half rural and urban, probably.
All from Texas?
All from, no, no.
We had eight from Louisiana.
We took, Louisiana didn't have veterinary school, so we reciprocated.
We took eight Louisiana students every year.
And what percentage of them had an A&M undergraduate background?
Well, of course, the eight from Louisiana didn't.
We had several University of Texas people, but I'd say the majority of them, two-thirds anyhow, were A&M graduates.
How were y'all, describe how the first year began.
How were you welcomed?
How did you get oriented?
Well, the first year for me was a very traumatic experience, the first day.
I came back out of the service, and everybody at that time, when I left to go in the service for,
I wore Levi's and boots and so forth.
I came back the first day to go to class and found out everybody had to be in whites and there would be no western boots and etc.
I didn't know where to go to class.
So I didn't muster out until August 23rd or 25th of that year.
So I tried to find my first class and ended up over at a little building called the Anatomy Building.
When I got there an hour or so late, all the students were four in a group, and the blackboards went all the way around the room, were completely filled with a process of bone formation written out by one Al Price.
And so I started out way behind.
I didn't know anybody in my class, and it was all very, very new.
I stayed in the veterinary medicine about a week, and I went home and told my wife.
I had a brand-new two-bust old baby.
Well, to my wife, I didn't think I was going to stay and go through this nonsense.
But I did stay.
And where were you all living?
We were living on Cooner Street.
I couldn't get into Veterans House, so I bought a little house on Cooner Street.
Remember the interest rate on it was 3 1⁄4 or 2 1⁄4 GI Bill.
This is K-O-O-N-E-R?
No, C-O-O-N-E-R.
Where is that?
That is now...
is right there where the, I think it's the Fairfield Motel or Hotel or something, right over off of Texas Avenue there.
Serapis used to be back in there.
And this class that you walked into that Dr. Price was doing, what about some of the other classes that first year, that first fall?
Well, that class I walked into that morning, again, everybody was divided up into fours.
And so they had, there was one group of three until I got there, and so I was automatically went into a group, and I knew none of them.
Of that group of four of us, two of them are dead and one of them still, John Huff still teaches here at the veterinary school.
We took anatomy, gross anatomy and histology and biochemistry and
Let me see, we had Dr. Price and Dr. Melleff and biochemistry.
Who else, what else we had this semester?
We had growth anatomy.
I don't remember whether we took physiology that first semester or not, but first two years was always about the same.
The first year
There was always a growth anatomy and microscopic anatomy and physiology and biochemistry.
And next year you went into physiology and microbiology and embryology.
histology.
And it was a four-year curriculum?
Four-year curriculum.
It took an average of 20 hours, 21 hours a semester.
Now that first lecture with Dr. Price that scared you, describe Al Price as a teacher.
Oh, he was an exceptional teacher.
Just like all of our, we had about seven professors that were core professors then that really made the veterinary school what it is.
Of course, you had Price, and you had Milliff, and you had Turk, and you had Burns, and you had Jaggi, and you had Leonard, and you had Beamer.
That group, they were all educators.
There were no research people in it, and they were the real core to their school and what it finally became.
Describe each of those, if you would.
Well, Dr. Price was younger of the group and he had come out of the military and he was very articulate and well-versed and gross anatomy and
Then Dr. Turk was... Why did y'all call him Slick Al?
Well, that was because I guess he was very verbal and articulate.
And he was made sure that you were also.
And he was very strict.
In no way was that a put down.
Oh, no.
That's what I thought.
No, no, no.
At that time, 92 was an A.
And if you had a 91.4, you were going to make a B. And they took a little pride in, not pride, but see how many failures they could have.
If you failed a course in veterinary school, you were out.
You'd just fail any one course.
So then there was Dr. Turk, who was a Kansas City Veterinary College graduate.
He couldn't hear anything, went through vet school reading lips, and he taught parasitology.
Did he have a nickname?
No, I don't think so.
I don't believe I've ever heard of him.
And then there was Dr. Milliff, John Milliff, who taught histology.
embryology and had done his advanced work at the University of Texas in Galveston.
Now he had a nickname, didn't he?
Not that I know of.
Oh really?
Dr. Johns, all that he was ever called was Dr. Johns.
Dr. Burns was called Pappy.
He taught physiology, pharmacology, toxicology, you name it.
And he had done advanced work
University of Chicago, I think.
Now, Miliff and Price and Burns were all A&M graduates.
Leonard was an A&M graduate.
A-N-H-A-R-D-T?
No, L-E-N-N-E-R-T.
He was taught medicine, large animal medicine and surgery, and was really, really a fine person.
And then Beamer taught small animal medicine surgery.
And Beamer, I think, was a—he may have been a Kansas State graduate.
And then we had a guy who taught public health named Jaggi, Fred Jaggi.
That was probably the most boresome of all courses we'd ever taken.
It was really a hygiene course more than anything.
As you look back, which was the most interesting course?
Oh...
I guess, to me, physiology and pharmacology and microbiology.
I never got real excited about anatomy, either growth or histology or pathology.
If you were grading them for their classroom and laboratory instructional capability, who would get the highest?
I'm not going to ask you the negative.
Who would get the highest grades?
Well, I guess Dr. John or Dr. Milliff and Dr. Price and probably Dr. McMurray and Dr. Davis and
They would probably be
Were there any courses that everybody dreaded because they were tough, just difficult to pass?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, a large animal anatomy that Leon Gibbs taught.
Everybody dreaded that.
And then the toxicology course that Dr. Burns taught.
Those were the two, I guess, that caused more fear than anything.
And that first year, describe what was the typical routine of a class day?
Classes were how long and what did you do?
Well, we took 21 semester hours all the way through.
So you can imagine that your class day was 8 to 5, which it was.
And then we had classes on Saturday morning still, too.
So how did you get to the campus?
Did you have a car then?
Yeah, I came out of the service, I had a car.
I had a Bel Air Chevrolet Power Glitch.
But it was very, very hard, especially being married and having a child.
I usually got home about, started at 6 in the morning and then got home at 6 in the evening in the afternoon.
And I really didn't have any time with my family.
And then I went and studied until midnight or 1 every morning.
And during that first year, did you develop some friendships in the vet school?
Well, yes, especially with my lab group that you worked so closely with.
But I developed lots of friendship.
And I was freshman class president for some reason.
I guess I was older or something.
What were the responsibilities of that position?
Oh, it was mainly just keeping the class informed of any activities and things such as that.
I got pretty involved.
I was class president for many years and was president of the AVMA, a student chapter, and set up all the programs for our AVMA student chapter, and did those kind of things.
What did you and your wife and that youngster, what did you all do for relaxation?
Well, again, we only had the one car in the family.
And so Mary got the car one afternoon a week to do the grocery shopping.
We never went anywhere, not with that baby.
I don't know that we ever went to a movie or anything.
Do you remember what your budget was?
Yeah.
Yeah, I came back on GI Bill, so I was getting $135 a month.
It seemed like that's what it was, about $100.
$135 a month, that paid for everything.
I had mustered out with $2,000 in leave time and other benefits, and that's what I bought my house with.
And then we lived on $135.
And your wife was a full-time stay-at-home mother.
Yeah.
Did y'all become involved in church or anything here?
No, we were, if we had any outside activity, it would have been church.
Where did you go?
A&M Church of Christ at the North Gate.
Describe that congregation during those years.
Oh, it was a congregation of
Used to have about 200 in attendance, I suppose, and half of them were students.
It was probably a young congregation.
And the building was located?
Church Street.
It was torn down last week.
Who was the minister during those years, or do you remember?
Yeah, there was Mr. Fowler and Mr. Seay, S-E-A-Y, I think, and then a guy by the name of Mount Whitson.
And you all went to services at the church how often?
Sunday morning, Sunday afternoon, Wednesday evening.
And Sunday school?
Back to veterinary medicine.
How did you come to end up in the specialty that you did?
What influenced you there?
Well, you mean where I finally pursued my advanced doctorate degree?
Well, no, no.
How did you decide that that was the field in which you were going to specialize?
Oh, wasn't there medicine?
No, no, no, no, no.
You're a pharmacology, aren't you?
Yeah, but you don't decide that.
You didn't decide that when you were in the DVM program?
No.
Oh, okay.
You don't.
The DVM is just a general curriculum, and so you don't have any specialty areas.
But I did work.
Of course, I worked all the time.
I mean, during school, and I was
I worked for the entomology department the first several summers that I was in vet school.
And then I worked for the physiology department during school.
And then I was the county health inspector.
my junior and senior year where I inspected all the stores in Braddock County that sold perishable products, and there were 85 of them or 87 of them.
And I had to go once a month and check them for temperature and all that kind of stuff and their quality and cleanliness.
I always worked through the whole process.
What did you think, as you were in the DVM program, what did you think you were going to do professionally as a veterinarian?
Well, I thought I would probably enter a mixed practice.
which I did in Beaumont.
And I had, I started, I had a equine practice in the mornings.
I started at six in the morning until
7.30 and then I was, of course I was, went in with a Dr. Cobbin, another practitioner.
And then I came to the office at 7.30 and took in clients for small ammo.
And then did surgery during lunch hour.
And then went back on some large ammo calls in the afternoon.
And then got back by 4 o'clock to take care of the small animals, customers from clients from 4 to 6.
And then I went out and did dairy practice after 6 in the evening.
And the brucellosis program had just started, and so we had to bleed all the dairy cattle in them.
Then I brought the blood samples back to the clinic, and we were the designated clinic for running the brucellosis test, plate test.
And I plated samples for all the veterinarians until about midnight, and then I went home.
Now, did that veterinarian, did you turn to him, when you were still a student here, did you turn to him for advice or anything?
Didn't know him.
Didn't know him, okay.
No, I went, when school was about,
When I was about to finish school, I went back to Beaumont, my hometown, and Dr. Cobbman hired me, and so I went to work there.
But in the interim, Dr. Burns had offered me a job to teach in the veterinary school.
So I contemplated that and went into practice.
And he contacted me again.
And he said he just had to have someone teach physiology that next year.
And so I told him I'd come back for nine months and teach
and then go back into my practice.
Ended up staying 35 years, I guess, something like that.
All right.
Back in those four years of that school, Armistead was the dean the whole time?
No.
Was he the dean when you graduated?
What my question is going to be, did the school change in its nature during those four years?
What I'm trying to think, I think that Armstead left and went to Michigan State about my junior year or something like that, and Al Price was probably dean of
my last year, I think.
I'm not sure.
But no, the school was really became a professional school while Armstead was dean.
He made it into a real medical healing arts program.
What was there that made you and your contemporaries proud of being part of this professional program?
Oh, I don't know.
He took some pride in being able to get into the program, being able to make it through the program.
The fact that it was a small
the only one in the state of Texas, small in numbers and a very difficult curriculum, and the graduates were recognized and compensated fairly well on graduation, I guess.
It's something that you, if you like, medicine.
I know physicians, when I went to work at Baylor College of Medicine,
were just enamored by the fact of what veterinarians knew and what they could do.
If you take human medicine, all you're concerned about is the anatomy and physiology, pharmacology, et cetera, of one species.
And for veterinarians to know so much about so many different species and all different anatomical structures and different medicine
drugs and pharmacology and diseases different for each one.
It was quite amazing to them.
As you look back now, what were the key courses, the most important courses in the curriculum for
Oh, when you get down to it, it's well designed and it's step-by-step prerequisites, etc.
I never cared for anatomy, but you did need to know anatomy.
We took lots of anatomy.
Physiology and pharmacology, which I ended up in, and pathology, which I minored in, in medical school, were probably the most important ones.
You know, we do surgery and all of that, but when you come to treating disease, about 95% of it is
is pharmacology.
I mean, either inoculations or antibiotics or various drugs.
So I think the physiology, pharmacology, and the pathology from the standpoint, you need to know what kills an animal, I guess, microbiology.
All of that core are very important.
As you look back now, were there any courses that were in hindsight kind of old-fashioned, and were there some that were really new and forward-looking?
Well, medicine is medicine and had the same curriculum for hundreds of years, I guess, and it's pretty well thought that they all are necessary.
Again, when it comes to really what's happened in medicine and what's going to happen, I would think that biochemistry and
and immunology are the three areas that modern medicine is being built on, I would think.
And was the vet school up to date on those then?
Yeah.
What has happened in the last 20 years in medicine or in biology in general and becoming molecular biology has been unbelievable compared to what we were taught.
We were taught in histology that you had a cell and a cell membrane.